# DISEASE_DETECTION_OF_PLANT_LEAF_USING_CNN
Agriculture is a key component of Indian economy. The contribution of food crops and cash crops is highly important for food security and supply of raw materials for industries. However, climate changes and extreme weather conditions result in many infectious crop diseases caused by fungi, viruses and bacteria. These plant diseases can be a major threat to food security and hence it is important to identify these diseases at the early stages. But their timely detection remains difficult due to the lack of the necessary infrastructure. Due to inadequate diagnosis and not knowing symptoms of the disease and its treatment, many plants die. Faster and accurate prediction of leaf diseases in crops could help to deploy an early treatment technique and considerably reduce production losses. As a result, plant diseases detection has become a major challenge. Traditional methods for identifying plant diseases were dependent on the experts in the field and hence time consuming, subjective and expensive. Plant pathologists have traditionally employed naked eye inspection to detect leaf diseases, and it requires a lot of man power and information about plant diseases. Automatic plant disease detection from leaf images can be very much useful than the existing method. It involves image acquisition, pre-processing, data augmentation, segmentation, feature extraction and classification using deep learning models. In this paper, Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) based Deep Learning approach has been proposed to detect and classify leaf diseases in many different plants using images of plant leaves. We collected a Plant Village dataset from Kaggle. Using a public dataset of 20,637 images of diseased and healthy plant leaves collected under controlled conditions, we train a deep convolutional neural network. The image data set consists of three species namely Tomato, Potato and Bell Pepper. The image data set contains 15 categories, of which 12 categories are diseased leaves and 3 categories are healthy leaves. The diseased category names are 'Bell Pepper bacterial spot', 'Potato early blight', 'Potato late blight', 'Tomato bacterial spot’, 'Tomato early blight', 'Tomato late blight', 'Tomato leaf mold', 'Tomato Septoria leaf spot', 'Tomato spider mites', 'Tomato target spot', 'Tomato yellow leaf curl virus' and 'Tomato mosaic virus'. The healthy categories are ‘Bell Pepper healthy', 'Potato healthy' and 'Tomato healthy'. 

Keywords- Agriculture, Infectious diseases, Early detection, Leaf diseases, Convolutional Neural Network (CNN), Image classification, Image preprocessing.
